```This project has been created as part of the 42 curriculum by mosokina, aistok, and aaladeok```

# WebServ (PDF v24.0)

## Description

Our miniMAA web server was written in C++98, based on the PDF v24.0 from the 42 Curriculum, in London, UK!

A web server is a system that stores, processes, and delivers web content to clients, using HTTP to communicate and manage, at minimum, HTML files, images, scripts, and style sheets. It handles requests from user agents (ex. browsers, wget, curl), and can manage data submissions, with high-traffic sites using multiple servers to distribute the load.

We have built a non-blocking HTTP server that uses a single poll to manage all socket I/O operations, including reading and writing, without using errno after operations. As of key technical constraints, we used fork only for CGI; our web server supports multiple ports and static website delivery. We implemented the GET method for serving files and CGI content (content generated by scripts like .sh, .php, .py, etc, and programs specifically written for this purpose), file uploads (POST method) and file/empty directory deletion (DELETE method), handled directly by the server.

The main goals of this project were, to:

- build a functional web server, handling GET, POST and DELETE requests and allowing the execution of CGI (scripts and programs)
- get familiar with working and collaborating in a team, review code, discuss issues and solutions, integrate code, maintain a uniform code base and coding style, keep meetings focused
- get familiar with Request for Comments (RFCs), which are formal documents used across technology, software engineering, and journalism to propose ideas, request feedback, or set industry standards; the terms web server, HTTP protocol, CGI are defined through such documents, that we consulted to get an understanding of the work we had to do; they are not fun novels to read! And reading them, gets easier with time!

## Instructions

To see the result of our work in action, see the below suggested options.
Note: use CTRL + C at any time to shut down the server gracefully!

Manual test via a web browser (we used FireFox):

1. make and then run the web server:

   make run

2. after the web server is up and running, navigate to
   http://localhost:8080 where you should see a simple html
   page with few buttons, allowing tests for:

   - readme.md, showing the functioning of the GET method;
     this and all other buttons are involved in this, since
     without the GET method, no page would load.
   - file upload, handled directly by the server (not CGI),
     limited by the client_max_body_size (in the location
     block, or if that is not defined, the one found in the
     server block; if none are defined, then there is no limit
     for file uploads!)
   - /view_uploads showing the www/uploads folder under the
     alias /view_uploads (DELETE requests are allowed, therefore
     it is possible to delete files via this page - server
     autogenerated, based on autoindex on)
   - simple POST request, which is handled by the server,
     creating a file on the server in www/uploads with the
     message found in the body of the POST request
   - list directory /files
   - list /delete_test (a directory, where DELETE requests
     are allowed, and a page through which you may delete
     some files and empty directories); the www/delete_test
     directory has some special permissions set,
     ex. chmod 444 for read-only and chmod 555 for read-only
     directory; the www/delete_test folder is easily created
     or removed with the ./tests/prep_www_for_delete_testing.sh
     and ./tests/prep_www_for_delete_testing.sh clean|fclean
     (there are two buttons "Reset /delete_test" to create
     and "Cleanup /delete_test" that will initiate a call to
     this script and create or remove the file or empty directory)
   - test CGI (by Ade), showing that a .php script can generate
     a simple page, meaning, .php CGI is supported
   - test CGI (by Maria), showing the passing of a simple message
     via a HTML form and the POST method to another .php script
   - test CGI (by Maria), showing the parsing of the query string
     from the URL and processed by a python script
   - Redirect by status code only - will open a new browser tab,
     redirecting to a page that only has a status code (ex. return 418)
   - Redirect by status code and URL - will again open a new
     browser tab, redirecting to a URL page, by a status code
     and a URL (ex. return 301 https://www.yahoo.com)

   NOTES:

   1. we can notice .sh, .php and .py scripts being run on
   our server!

   2. for the .php scripts to work, php-cgi needs to be installed;
   if this needs installing, please run:

      sudo apt install php-cgi

   3. same goes for the .py scripts, and if python needs installing,
   please run:

      sudo apt install python3

	  Then, have the right interpreter in the webserver .conf file,
	  ex, some systems have python and others have python3, etc.

Automated test, created by Maria, to test the web server's main
core functionality:

1. in one terminal run:

   make run

2. in another terminal run:

   make core_tests

Automated test, running the 42 tester:

1. in one terminal run:

   make 42config

2. in another terminal run:

   make 42tester

   And follow the instructions (just hit ENTER) as everything
   is configured as asked (www_42tester has the needed files
   and directories, and conf/42tester.conf has the needed
   configuration)

Automated tests, created by Ade, showcasing the config parser
is functioning as required:

1. in one terminal run:

   make run

2. in another terminal run:

   make config_tester

Stress test with siege, a multi-threaded HTTP/FTP load tester
and benchmarking utility:

1. install siege:

   sudo apt install siege

2. Start our web server by running:

   make run

3. For a basic 1 minute stress test, simulating 10 concurrent
   client connecting run:

   make siege-basic

4. For a medium 3 minute stress test, with no delay between
   iterations and with 50 concurrent client connections, run:

   make siege-medium

   The siege-www-urls.txt contains valid links to three
   different files for siege to randomly ask for via the
   simulated clients.

5. For a hard stress test, with 255, a high number of
   concurrent client connections, each repeating 10 times and
   with no delay between the requests, run:

   make siege-hard

6. For a very stressful test, where each concurrent client
   will repeat 1000 times, we can run:

   make siege-very-hard

   Some errors are shown by siege, but please note, our
   web server stands the ground and keeps running with
   an availability of 99.96%, with multiple file requests!

## Resources

- HTTP 1.0 RFC:
  https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc1945

- The Common Gateway Interface (CGI) Version 1.1 RFC:
  https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc3875

- How the web works: HTTP and CGI explained
  https://www.garshol.priv.no/download/text/http-tut.html

- AI usage notes:

  AI has been used to research, explain terms and concepts
  and to provide small code samples.

  AI has also been tested, to speed up development, by
  generating the shell script ./tests/ai_gen_requests.sh prompted
  by Atti in about 10 sentences, which worked at the first try
  (then has been extended manually).
